---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: false
title: Is there such a thing as a "Dumb Question?"
date: 2017-09-06
labels:
  - Questions
  - Answers
  - StackOverflow
---

Asking the right questions can get you the right answers, and despite what people say, there is such a thing as a “dumb question.” Or at least in the way you ask it.
When asking technical questions, they should be asked in a way that will generate the most efficient and effective answers.
You can achieve this by asking the right people in the right way.  Making sure to ask an audience that will actually know the answer, being polite and courteous, and also giving enough detail, with options you’ve tried it possible.

Searching StackOverflow, I found what I believe to be an example of a “smart way” to utilize the forum.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5161951/android-only-the-original-thread-that-created-a-view-hierarchy-can-touch-its-vi

This appears to give ample details of the question, and goes into what did work and what didn’t. Also what part of the code that gave him the problem.
He also apologized for the possibility that it might seem like a dumb question, although I don’t know enough about the issue to know whether that was accurate.  But it didn’t seem pandering or making excuses.  
This question received both a lot of votes and many replies.  The replies appear to be helpful and solve the dilemma.  They don’t appear to be simple or condescending, nor do they call him out in any way.  I believe this to be a good example of how to ask a technical question.

An example of how NOT to ask a technical question can be found at 
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27276427/how-do-i-merge-sort-characters 

This example shows someone who is obviously new to coding, but this simple question could have easily been looked up.  And as you can see, there was only one reply, and a negative vote on it.  The question came from someone who at least was trying to be helpful and not make any negative remarks.  But there was very little detail, just a posting of his code and asking why it doesn’t work.  


These examples give an idea of why you need to ask “smart questions” to get appropriate and effective answers.  If you ask it the wrong way, you may get a kind-hearted soul to answer in the way you hoped, but more likely will get something less desirable and helpful.
This may seem simple, but going back over questions I’ve posed on StackOverflow myself, I’ve found that my questions were also lacking, which is why they most likely didn’t lead me in the direction I was hoping for.

This article found at http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html gave me quite a bit of insight into what I had been doing wrong, and the changes I might be able to make in the future.  Most important of which for me is more detail and showing that I had tried alternate routes to find that information.  Also letting them know I’m a student of ICS, so my knowledge isn’t anywhere near where it should be, but show them that I’m doing what I know to search for the answers before posting them online to the masses. 
